Tropical deforestation accounts for over 10% of annual carbon
emissions, more than total emissions from the global transportation
sector. Any viable effort to mitigate climate change will have to
address deforestation, especially in Brazil and Indonesia, which
together made up over 40% of deforestation in 2011.  As part of a
grand Coasian bargain, Norway pledged 1 billion dollars to Indonesia
conditional on reducing emissions from deforestation over 8 years,
starting in 2010.  Paid on delivery.  The first stage of the agreement
was a moratorium on new concessions for clearing activity in natural
forest, announced in May 2010 to be enacted in January 2011, but
actually enacted in May 2011.  The objective of this study is to
assess the impact of the moratorium on the spatial distribution and
overall rate of deforestation in Indonesia.

We use Borneo as our sample area, which is split into Indonesia and
Malaysia.  The landscape and agricultural practices are similar, facts
that we verify using satellite imagery --- such as elevation, slope,
water accumulation, and other data sets derived from NASA's shuttle
radar topography mission.  These factors, along with information on
soil type, are the primary inputs into agriculturalists' profit
functions.  There are some systematic differences between Indonesian
and Malaysian Borneo, but these should only serve to dampen the
observed impacts of the moratorium.

The foundational data report on forest clearing activity for each 500m
pixel in the humid tropics for each 16-day period through September
23, 2012.  This graph shows the total deforestation rates in Malaysia
(red) and Indonesia (blue) along with shaded regions indicating the
three phases of the moratorium.  It can be shown that the difference
between the total rates of deforestation increased after the
moratorium, even after controlling for agricultural prices, shown in
this slide.

Each time a pixel is marked by deforestation, it is categorized into
one of two groups: (1) the emergence of a new cluster of deforstation,
or (2) on the periphery of an previously existing cluster.  This is
similar to Weitzman's resource pools: does extraction intensify in
existing mines, or does it come from new mines.  Theory suggests that
extraction from new resource pools should disproportionately rise with
an increase in the value of the resource.  And indeed we see this.
Except after the moratorium, when the proportion does not increase
with price.  This graph shows price plotted against the warped
difference between the proportions.  Here are the points associated
with post-moratorium, and this is what we would expect -- this is the
counterfactual.

An assumption is that the response time to exogenous shocks are
consistent between and within the treatment and control groups.  I
propose in the paper that this assumption may be relaxed slightly
using dynamic time series warping, a nonparametric matching technique
that was developed for language detection and time series
classification.  


The data are the basis for this project, and allow for an empirical
examination of a long-studies problem in resource economics, made
famous by Marty Weitzman's resource pool problem.  For the first time,
we have constructed a data set on tropical deforestation for each 500m
pixel, updated at 16-day intervals.  It now serves as the foundational
data set for Global Forest Watch, a joint initiative of the World
Resources Institute and Google -- and is shown in this first slide.  I
use the data to study the formation of new clusters of deforestation
versus the expansion of old clusters, much like the opening of new
mines versus the intensification of existing mines -- as in Weitzman's
paper and many subsequent extensions.

The sample area for this study is Borneo, which is split into Malaysia
(in green) and Indonesia (in orange).  And Brunei, but it's small --
so I knocked it out.  The physical characteristics across the island
are similar, as are the agricultural practices.  I have tested this
assumption using high resolution digital models, and the derived data
on slope, water accumulation, and other factors that determine sites
for agriculture.
